[SPARK-47318][CORE] Adds HKDF round to AuthEngine key derivation to follow standard KEX practices (#45425)
apache/spark: docs/security.md

# Network Encryption

Spark supports two mutually exclusive forms of encryption for RPC connections:

The **preferred method** uses TLS (aka SSL) encryption via Netty's support for SSL. Enabling SSL
requires keys and certificates to be properly configured. SSL is standardized and considered more
secure.

The legacy method is an AES-based encryption mechanism relying on a shared secret. This requires

> RPC authentication to also be enabled. This method uses a bespoke protocol and it is recommended
> to use SSL instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RPC authentication to also be enabled. This method uses a bespoke protocol with an older v1 and an updated v2 version. <add details about v1 vs v2>
```

Also, update the config section below on how to configure `spark.network.crypto.authEngineVersion`, and a ref to that here: along with incompatibility between `1` and `2` (and all versions prior being `1` retroactively - without a way to configure it before `3.5.2` and `3.4.3`)

Author: Updated in the section about the Legacy protocol.

If both options are enabled in the configuration, the SSL based RPC encryption takes precedence
and the AES based encryption will not be used (and a warning message will be emitted).

## SSL Encryption (Preferred)

Spark supports SSL based encryption for RPC connections. Please refer to the SSL Configuration
section below to understand how to configure it. The SSL settings are mostly similar across the UI
and RPC, however there are a few additional settings which are specific to the RPC implementation.
The RPC implementation uses Netty under the hood (while the UI uses Jetty), which supports a
different set of options.

> Unlike the other SSL settings for the UI, the RPC SSL is *not* automatically enabled if

Reviewer 2: Since this layer is completely irrelevant to UI, we don't need to say like this. Shall we omit this paragraph?
> Unlike the other SSL settings for the UI

# Network Encryption

Spark supports two mutually exclusive forms of encryption for RPC connections:

The **preferred method** uses TLS (aka SSL) encryption via Netty's support for SSL. Enabling SSL
requires keys and certificates to be properly configured. SSL is standardized and considered more
secure.

The legacy method is an AES-based encryption mechanism relying on a shared secret. This requires
RPC authentication to also be enabled. This method uses a bespoke protocol and it is recommended

> to use SSL instead.

Reviewer: Looking at the earlier text, we are dropping some verbiage from it - any particular reason for it ?
Specifically `"However, the AES based encryption is simpler to configure and may be preferred if the only requirement is that data be encrypted in transit."` for ex.

We have made our recommendation clear, and rest should be left to users to determine - and make the right tradeoff.

Author: I will take this out. I think it is rationalizing why there is an ad hoc protocol here instead in the first place. I agree that we should make it clear that TLS is strongly preferred and make it easy to migrate.

Author: I put the original text back in.

The RPC implementation uses Netty under the hood (while the UI uses Jetty), which supports a
different set of options.

Unlike the other SSL settings for the UI, the RPC SSL is *not* automatically enabled if
`spark.ssl.enabled` is set. It must be explicitly enabled, to ensure a safe migration path for users
upgrading Spark versions.

## AES-based Encryption (Legacy)

Spark supports AES-based encryption for RPC connections. For encryption to be enabled, RPC
authentication must also be enabled and properly configured. AES encryption uses the
[Apache Commons Crypto](https://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-crypto/) library, and Spark's
configuration system allows access to that library's configuration for advanced users.

This legacy protocol has two mutually incompatible versions. Version 1 omits applying key derivation function
(KDF) to the key exchange protocol's output, while version 2 applies a KDF to ensure that the derived session
key is uniformly distributed. Version 1 is default for backward compatibility. It is **recommended to use version 2**
for better security properties. The version can be configured by setting `spark.network.crypto.authEngineVersion` to

> 1 or 2 respectively.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for the above description.

  </td>
  <td>2.2.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><code>spark.network.crypto.authEngineVersion</code></td>
  <td>1</td>

>   <td>Version of AES-based RPC encryption to use. Valid versions are 1 or 2. Version 2 is recommended. Added in 4.0.0</td>

Reviewer 2: `Added in 4.0.0` looks like a typo. This will break this HTML table. In other words, we need to have two lines of `<td></td>`. One for description and the other for version. Please remove ` Added in 4.0.0` from here and create a new line, `<td>4.0.0</td>`, in order to follow the other configuration's style.

Author: Good catch. Fixed.
